I was at this hotel and there was just a
book line around and I read it and he
said trace your thought back to its
origin I just
was inspired to do exactly that and I
somatically traced the thought back to
where it came from I was like what the
[__] was that and then I thought to
myself what I need to do is really play
out this experiment
stuff so today we're going to talk about
a modality for self-discovery that you
can use to change your life yeah it's
experiments it's how to set up little
tests and Explorations in your life that
will let you understand yourself far
better and know how you can be more
authentic and more successful in your
life and they are they're really fun and
they
also super effective one of my favorite
things and and a huge part of my entire
growth process has been running
experiments yeah anyone who's been
listening to the podast for a while or
who's done any of our work has seen how
experiments are worked into our courses
and are worked into into all the ways
that we that we explore ourselves in in
the art of accomplishment and so I'd
like to start by just talking about how
did you come to the uh the way the
philosophy of
experimentation that that we that we use
in this work yeah so for me it was just
that I had really bad Authority issues
that's that's really the deal it so if
you go back into my timeline if you go
back when I was like in my 20s and I was
just getting into this kind of work and
and transformation man I just there was
no way I was going to listen to anybody
um my dad was an authority that was not
something to trust and so I didn't trust
Authority at all I projected my dad onto
every authority figure and so I would be
looking at a book from say Adia Shante
and I would switch the book over to the
backside I would see his picture and I
would say to
myself like man that guy needs his photo
on it he's like all in it for the ego he
can't be any good or I would hear
somebody say something to the effect of
uh Powers the ultimate expression of
fear and then I would pick a book from
uh e arol that somebody recommended and
said the power of now and I'm like ah
the ultimate expression of fear there
was no way any teacher could do right by
me so I would read some of them and I go
my brain was in a debate with everything
that they said and eventually I heard
enough teachers say don't trust
me uh try it out for yourself test
it and in fact Adia Shante the guy who
who who was a huge influence on me that
I got over the picture clearly uh would
was one of those people who would say
that and so I did I took their advice I
I said said okay that's that's something
I can do you want to put the power in my
hands that's where I can trust it and so
I started testing everything that I read
and it's funny now because I'm on
Twitter and I'll say something on
Twitter and I'll see somebody
intellectually debate
it and so often what I want to do is
just say hey like don't debate it just
try it out if it works great if it
doesn't work don't like just let it go
but you'll see this kind of intellectual
thought process and in the intellectual
thought process maybe semantics are
disagreed on or maybe there's an idea of
something but you haven't actually
embodied it it's not sematic you don't
understand it you don't grock it
grocking meaning understanding on a
physical level and so so that was the
thing for me and and that's how where it
began experiments went through its own
Evolution and we can talk about that
later but it began with I can't [__]
trust anybody I'm going to try it out
for myself I'm going to test it myself
I'm going to reinvent the wheel but at
least it's going to be my wheel at least
I know it's true I I know that the the
Cadence of that wheel is going to be
true and that was that's why it happened
for me just having Authority issues and
it was by far one of the biggest
blessings or or fortunes of having
Authority issues was that I had to test
everything yeah so one thing I'm hearing
is yeah you can you can take something
like all you need is love will go with
John Lennon and you can be like okay
I'll either take it or leave it or I'll
check internally does this feel true to
me if not I'll throw it out if it does
I'll take it on but then there's
something deeper in the crafting and
creation of an experiment that is
structured that kind of creates a some
some form of controlled environment
where you can try something out over a
period of time and then reflect on it
and so how how did you get from the
point of I don't really believe any of
these teachers so but I still want the
learnings I want the I want the juice so
I'm going to find a way to make it mine
and how did that become this process of
deeply structured experiments yeah so
the original stuff wasn't so deeply
structured so the the original
experiments that I would run would be
something like I remember hearing from
somebody I can't even remember who
anymore but it was uh I think it was
this guy Papa G and I was at this hotel
and there was just a book line around
and I read it and it was just this
arbitrary thing and he said trace your
thought back to its origin I did it I
just
was inspired to do exactly that and I
somatically traced the thought back to
where it came from I was like what the
[__] was that H so it was little
moments that were very much just a
suggestion and I did it and then I
thought to myself what I need to do is
really play out this experiment stuff
how do I do it not just in this moment
but over a period of time and so the
next experiment that I ran particularly
with that one when I had that Discovery
was what if I start tricing as many
thoughts as I can for an hour back to
their Source what happens then and so it
was this curiosity and wonder that was
moving and I would say more curiosity at
the beginning because there was a desire
for an answer less Wonder but there was
a little Wonder in it and I would just
find these things that I was deeply
curious about and run experiments to see
what would happen and so over the course
of the years and working with a lot of
people what role have you seen role or
roles have you seen experiments play in
the process of
self-discovery yeah so some of the most
important certain things that
experiments do is one they they make it
yours meaning I can say something I can
believe something but unless I've tested
unless I know unless I have that felt
sense of it then I don't really know it
I think about it like a poisonous
mushroom if I eat let's say not a deadly
but a poisonous mushroom someone says
that's poisonous that's
poisonous maybe I'll look at it and
notice that's if I've eaten it once I'm
gonna know that crap's poison I'm not
gonna touch it again I'm not gonna like
go through the evening or 24 hours of
puking it's there's a felt sense of it
and so it's not book learning it's not
something you can
debate and because of that it really
dictates your actions you can have a
thought process such
as I don't have free will or you can
have a thought process of I do have free
will and that can be a debate
forever and you can also run an
experiment designed to find out
how is it that you make
decisions you can run an experiment to
say what happens if I do only the things
that I'm called to do or what happens if
I make a choice for every little thing
that I'm doing today and you can start
experimenting finding out what's the
what's the felt sense of do I have a
free will or do I not have free will so
those are some of the things that help
one is that it makes it yours one is
that it really affects the way you make
decisions rather than just having the
intellectual thought process around it
yeah and something I'm noticing here in
in this philosophy of experimentation is
it's a little bit less about like
experimenting on the world to find out
what's out there it's a lot more
experimenting on our experience and how
we how we experience ourselves in the
world is where a lot of a lot of these
experiments seem to be kind of focused
yeah I think there's another way to look
at it too which is how do I want to live
in the world for me now most of my
experiments aren't trying to test if
somebody else is true or if something
somebody said it's true it's more of
what's the thought process that actually
creates the life that I want to live if
I walk around thinking there's free will
what will that look like if I walk
around thinking there is no free will
what does that look like how does it
feel to be in that thought process how
does it feel to be in that Consciousness
so for me a lot of it is very practical
of how do I want to exist in this world
what is my authentic expression is a lot
of where the experiments come from today
what makes a well-formed experiment so
effective in actually transforming your
your relationship with the world it's
the same thing as if you fix a car
engine you understand it better than if
you just read about fixing the car
engine you have to deal with the bolts
and the WD40 and The Leverage to get
that one bolt out and the all that stuff
that happens right um so it's very
Hands-On it's very personal and it's
it's the same thing that makes us learn
better soccer by actually kicking the
ball not just watching soccer tapes so
that's one of the things the other thing
a couple other things also one is it
just makes it more playful you know we
have that episode on failure and so
experiments are meant for a short period
of time it's not something that you tell
yourself you should do it's something
that you wonder about you do it for a
short period of time you have an
experience does that experience affect
your life does it change the way you
operate yes or no does it make you want
different things yes or no and so off
you go so it's just this constant
iteration there's no failure potential
failure in it as so as an example of
this it would
be you want to um stop talking all the
time in a conversation let's say you're
one of those people who thinks that they
overt talk and you've told yourself for
10 years stop talking so much but
nothing has changed it's a lot easier to
say okay for today just this
conversation I'm only going to ask
questions and today in this conversation
I'm just going to
nod and in and and in day and and in
this conversation or this day I'm going
to say everything that I want with like
absolute Gusto and
passion and this day I'm going to say
everything that I want to say but I'm
going to be tentative about it and and
so that is going to teach you a lot more
about talking or not talking when it's
appropriate talk when it's appropriate
to listen and it's and it's not
something where you are going to beat
yourself up because you didn't
accomplish it it's just one conversation
or one day you're going to learn so much
stuff and you're going to going have a
felt experience of it oh not talking so
much and listening more and asking
questions feels really good in this way
but it feels really bad in this way what
time what times do I want to ask
questions what times do I want to speak
less what times do I want to speak more
and all of that gets learned by doing
these experiments yeah sounds like one
thing you're saying there that this this
points to is that it takes a lot of the
sort of the implicit internal shoulds
the
the like kind of high pressure this is
so serious default way of approaching
something and then it puts it into our
own hands gives us the chance to to play
with it and experience it as play so we
still get to play with the structure of
how we want to be in the world but it's
really coming from this place of how do
I want to be in the world and what are
the results of the different ways I'm
being rather than just this assumed
internal morality of how I should do
things to get the results I want yeah it
also opens up the aperture oftentimes
when we're in shs we have some fear so
we have some binary thinking and it
becomes very black and white and that's
really not a great place to learn you
know usually the learning is in the
nuance and so you're opening up the
aperture you're looking at the problem
from different angles you're exploring
it instead of thinking you know the
answer already and if you did know the
answer already then you would be talking
less but since you're not you don't
what's interesting is it's very similar
if I just tell you something to do do
this Brett you're less likely to do it
than if you if I say to you what would
you like to do around this and you say I
want to do this you're more likely to do
that it's the same with ourselves we're
do that we just don't do it as often as
if it's oh what do you want to
experiment what do you want to learn
it's just more easy to do it's more
pleasurable and so we're more likely to
do it yeah and we're more likely to feel
in like we're more likely to enjoy it
that way yeah yes absolutely which is
one of the other things about
experiments is they're just deeply
enjoyable the other thing that it does
is that experiments separate your
identity when if I think I'm the person
who talks too much it's very hard to
become the person who doesn't talk too
much because my identity is at stake but
an experiment isn't doesn't have
anything to do with your identity I'm
just going to learn some [__] right and
so I'm just doing some experiments to
learn some [__] and then I change
because I've learned
also it's just super efficient meaning
it in in MIT media lab as I understand
it they have this principle is that if
you're going to build something that you
don't know how to build go to the thing
you know the least amount about do the
simplest experiment to learn the most
about it and the reason that they do it
that way is because usually if I say was
going to build a car I've never done it
before I'm going to build everything
that I know and then I'm going to build
the that I don't know let's say the
chassis and then once I've built the
chassis I've learned some stuff that
will make it so I have to rebuild the
whole card to fit to the
chassis and so and people do the things
that they
know that experimentation process
teaches you a lot about the thing you
don't know which makes it the quickest
way to build the car or build the
self-awareness or build the
self-discovery or build the life that
you want yeah so I want to get into the
process of how we create experiments in
our lives but before we do that I just
want to talk a little bit about the
mindset with which we can approach
experiments a lot of what we just talked
about seems to speak to that but I want
to kind of get concrete on what's the
best mindset from which to approach
creating running iterating and
reflecting on experiments in your life
yeah so the first one is don't make it a
[__]
should like don't make don't make it a
should don't don't make it experiment
into something that you should be doing
so you're always looking for a way of
finding an experiment and the mindset
that makes it playful and
fun and a discovery process it's it's
far more like taking a Sunday Drive
where you don't know where you're going
than it is I need to get to this place
and it's a commute right I need to get
to work and I need to be there by a
certain time so take all that stuff
stuff out of it and just wander so
wandering is is an important part
typically the places that we want to
wander are where there's pain or where
there's
curiosity so but generally that's that's
important but there there needs to be
enough
structure where you have some sort of
container so it's I'm going to do it for
X period length of time I am going to do
it for x amount of days I typically will
do something for at least a week because
that will teach me a lot sometimes I
don't need to I'll say I'll do it for a
week but after two days it's so freaking
obvious and then I'll just go to the
next experim experiment that I put on
top of it that's another thing is often
times you're building an one experiment
on the next and so that's part of the
attitude is oh I'm I I want to keep on
digging I want to keep on moving down
the tunnel I want to keep on going down
the rabbit hole that's a really
important
one um make sure that it's not high
stakes make sure that it's there's a
playfulness to it uh and and the other
thing is keep the identity as we talked
about keep the identity away from from
the experiments so think about it like
you're a little kid building s sand
castles yeah you would like to build a
big sand castle but like your sand
castle is going to be your sand castle
the whole shit's going to be gone in a
while like enjoy it and it's more about
like like playing in the sand and
getting hit by the ocean every once in a
while then it is about being identified
with the best sand castle builder in the
world as you know that's that's a way to
think of it okay great so we're like
little kids we're walking along the
beach of our life for building sand
castles how do we identify where we want
to build our first sand castle where
where where we want to run an experiment
in our life where's the how do we
identify the juiciest place for self
Discovery that's also within a window of
Tolerance that we'll be able to
experience it as play yeah so the the
most important thing is where where you
I wouldn't say the most important thing
but what I'd say is an important thing
is where you're going to run the
experiment it's where your curiosity
where your wonder is where your pain is
those are the places
typically um maybe you run into
something you're like what the [__] was
that I want to learn more about that and
maybe you're just like I'm smoking I
don't want to be smoking how do I
approach this with an experimental
playful what do I not know about smoking
what can I learn attitude without I'm
doing these experiments to quit smoking
so that would be one is so pain where
your desire is where your Wonder
curiosity is that's an important thing
um the second thing
is make sure that your experiments
don't reinforce
any kind of like self-abuse so I've
noticed that when people start running
experiments they'll run an experiment
that proves that they can't do it or
they'll run an experiment that proves
that they're broken in some way it'll
reinforce some sort of Shame so
typically I like running the first
couple experiments in any area as
something that's like completely
contradictory to something that I would
believe I don't I don't I don't think
that's true at all I don't that that
couldn't be right and I'll run that
experiment what would be a good example
of that um let's let's just take any
topic for a second let's say I
um this is a good one so running an
experiment not on too much of a develop
self-development thing but on marketing
in our
business I hate most marketing right
like so I don't
and uh the first experiment we ran in
marketing was how do we do it exactly
the way most people market like take the
the state-of-the-art marketing and
like complete with timers and and popup
screens and we did exactly that uh
to to see what what works about it what
we could learn there there's there's a
lot of intelligence there that has been
put into that there's a lot of people
put a lot of time and energy into that
what could we learn and then how do we
make it ours in a way that feels good
and to us so for that would be one
example if you take something that's
more in the personal development space
um let's take exercise is a perfect
example
um I remember the first thing is
exercise is painful
okay how how do I do an experiment on
how to make exercise fun
because I just hated exercise I would I
grew up not having to exercise my
parents kept me away from any kind of
exercise because I had bad eyesight they
thought I would learn how to be a
failure or because they just didn't want
to take me to soccer practice every
afternoon because they were busy
whatever it
was and
so my my first experiment was how how
can I see if exercise is fun and so I
literally looked at every sing calendar
yoga Dance Movement gym everything I
could every class dance you know and I
just tried out like 50 things to see if
any of it was
fun so the ex it wasn't I'm going to go
work out at the gym it was I'm GNA do
the Cha Cha Cha on [__] Sunday nights
and I'm gonna do you know contact improv
on Tuesdays and I just experimented
until I found stuff that I found was fun
which right now ends up being pickle
ball I think pickle ball so fun and uh
yeah this reminds me of an experiment
that I ran a little while ago with uh
with morning freew writing and the
experiment started of course as
basically just a copy paste of my voice
in the head it was like I'm going to
wake up in the morning and I'm going to
do freew writing for seven to 10 minutes
and like fill a couple pages and then
every morning there was this like oh I'm
not doing it or I'm doing it and there
like adherence to the experiment was
just another form of the the self abuse
and so I was
noticing that this was happening I was
like okay I'm going to change the
experiment and instead of telling myself
I'm going to do freew writing every
morning I'm going to put my notebook and
a pen somewhere that I walk by right
outside of my uh my bedroom
and over the course of time I wasn't
thinking necessarily that I was doing
the experiment right even I wasn't I
didn't feel like I was adhering to it
but I started to find myself just pick
the pen up and paper and walk around in
my kitchen and write like four sentences
while I was in the middle of cooking
something and I was like oh this is
actually integrating into my life but it
wasn't the initial the initial
experiment was not the experiment and so
I I want to ask you a little bit more
about how once an experiment is designed
and we're often running assuming that we
can assume that's not going to be the
final iteration of the experiment it's
probably going to come from some kind of
pattern to begin with right right and
then so how do we measure the results
and iterate on experiments to to
increase the play increase the learning
and let the experiment
evolve into something that's different
from what we've been telling ourselves
to do in the past yeah I think the thing
that you just pointed to is really
important so I want to I want to stay
there for just a second so I wanted to
know what it was like to do Kundalini
breath work every
morning for 30 minutes and um I just
couldn't it's just godamn one more thing
to do I've got a busy life life the
first thing I is wake up and breathe in
a way that's uncomfortable and I just
wasn't doing it and so then my
experiment
[Music]
became I'm just going to do one one F
four three three minute breath work
thing I'm just going to wake up and do
see what it's like to just do one three
minute breath work thing and then what I
noticed is every time I was there for
the first three minutes I was totally
happy to do the rest of it so it was
just that little change and then I was
doing 30 minutes of breath work in the
morning and I did that for a couple
weeks and oh that's what that's what
that does to my life that's what the
world looks like having done that for
two weeks and now maybe from that point
I might say I want to see what it's like
for four weeks I want to see what it's
like for six weeks I want to see what
it's like in the evening I want to see
what it's like to just do the really
powerful breath work and not the more
meditative breath work etc etc and so
the experiments will just move from
there it'll just be where I'm drawn and
and it's just really important to think
about and I think one of the reasons I
didn't explain
why why experiments are so powerful is
that we have a like a migratory path in
us we know how we're supposed to evolve
we know how we're supposed to develop we
don't know it consciously but we know it
kids know that they're meant to walk
when they're when when they get to a
certain age and they we do it through
mimicry
to some degree but we just know that
certain things are supposed to happen
the way a bird knows it's migratory
migratory path home and and so when
you're doing an experiment you're
trusting that migratory path you're not
trusting a book right I could read a
book and I might be able to get one or
two big epiphanies out of it and I read
it again 6 months later and I get a
different two or three epiphanies I
couldn't get the other ones cuz it
wasn't where I was on my path but if
you're following
that that that migratory path your
experiments will be right on your path
so it's it's always the thing that
you're supposed to learn if you're
really trusting that and that takes a
little while to hone because you have to
listen to that pull not listen to that
should right so there's that really
important aspect it's not how do I
overcome this thing it's what do I want
to wonder about what do I explore what
do I not know about the pain and then
you're just on that migratory path and I
think that's that's really critical and
and that's how it develops that's how
you know the next experiment to
run and and there is a little bit of a
discipline to it which is there's
usually a moment so some of the best
experiments is there's this usually this
moment of
discomfort and you don't want to just
jump out of the experiment during that
discomfort want to embrace intensity as
we say and the perfect example of this
was the story I've told I think many
times about taking out the trash right
where I'm I I I've got an experiment
running where I'm not going to do
anything I don't enjoy for whatever it
was one or two weeks and I'm sitting
there with the trash I don't enjoy
taking out the trash and I don't enjoy
the smell of the trash I don't enjoy the
rotting [__] that's in the trash and I'm
[__] what am I going to do there very
tense moment I know it seems weird but
it's like no I guarantee I wasn't going
to do anything I don't want to do and I
don't want to smell this and I'm not
going to just cheat on my experiment and
like okay fine [__] it and go to the god
that suck but okay at least the trash is
out like what do I
do and so the the experiments will push
you up against that limit and so when
you feel that tension that's when you
don't give up on your experiment when
you feel the when you feel the should
when you feel the have to when you feel
the identity that's when you rearrange
the experiment but not when it gets
uncomfortable yeah it sounds like even
that that practice the sub practice in
running an experiment of how how long do
I stay with a certain structure and how
quickly do I iterate according to my
migratory flight path yeah is there's a
way that even engaging and wrestling
with that can deepen our capacity to
recognize what is the migratory flight
path feeling and what is the jumping out
of discomfort feeling correct that's
actually is one of the greatest things
about doing experiments is is that you
really have to learn how to listen to
yourself in a very particular way um the
other thing that's interesting about
experiments running them over a period
of time is that the reason that we do
the experiments change and the way we do
the experiments change which are all
part of the evolutionary path as well
and so examples of this are when I
started it was a way to show my autonomy
show my sovereignty nobody tells me what
to do I'm a rebel you're an authority
figure [__] off I'm going to learn this
for myself then it became a way for me
to really internalize it and and see
what was mine and I'm not living against
them or for them I'm not listening to
them or not listening to them I am just
following my thing and and now it's very
much like a surrender the experiment
shows up and it's like oh that's
obviously something I have to do and I
Surrender into the experiment almost
like it's a you know it's a traditional
Guru like my experiments are my gurus on
some level and it's just like I I
Surrender into that experiment there is
a way in which the self gets seen
through in every experiment and and part
of that is in that deep surrender yeah
so I'm hearing this this way that
there's a through line that cuts through
the the way that you approach
experiments as you as you grow transform
deepen your self- awareness and I'm also
curious how much how much have you
observed that the content of experiments
over time tends to follow similar themes
or do they do they kind of fly all over
the different place you know you're
doing one with diet you're doing one
with homework you're doing one with like
how how have you seen or maybe the
better question here
is how how would you recommend people
think about the Arc of their experiments
so that they're developing more momentum
yeah with them yeah I would say don't
worry about the momentum like it'll
it'll that'll happen happens on its own
there's some things that you learn by
doing experiments over time for instance
there was this time when I was doing
these
experiments that were helping me for a
while and then they would not help me
and then they would help me and then
they would not help me and then so I do
this experiment to great effect and then
it would stop working and then I do this
experiment to great effect and it would
stop working and I realized what was
happening was if I did a
practice and I didn't know what was
going to happen it worked really well
but as soon as I was using the practice
to manage myself it stopped [__]
working it's very similar to to you know
if I'm if I'm loving an emotion to to
change it to to get rid of it I'm not
actually loving it if I'm if I am
running the experiment to manage myself
I'm no longer running the experiment it
doesn't work and and that didn't take
that wasn't one experiment I learned
that because I saw that pattern in like
six or s experiments which was like this
huge teaching for me that I had never
read in any book which is oh if you're
trying to manage yourself it's it's
usually not going to go well for you you
know and so if you stay in a place of of
Wonder and impartiality and view which
is really the way you're approaching
these
experiments that wow it works really
well so it's an interesting thing
there's there's that category as well
that that through line um as far as I
don't have a
way in which I
say I'm going to just do experiments on
this for this week and this and this
week I usually just run one experiment
at a
time maybe I have a business experiment
and and a another experiment a life
experiment but I try not to do too many
so I can really Savor Focus understand
what's happening get the most out of the
experiment I just find it's more
efficient that way that's that's
something and and the other thing that's
important and I can see a way to say it
now that I couldn't at the beginning of
the podcast which is I'm going to geek
out here for a second one of the reasons
that our economy is so robust is because
it mimics the way people act and I say
robust I mean like couple hundred years
of up and to the right there's that
there's like little wobbles but
generally we're just a growing economy
and the reason is is
because it acts like humans I want to do
this okay I can go do this oh let's do
this together it's like kids playing
right you get 10 20 kids in a yard and
they will move from one play group to
another playgr group they will build a
fairy house and they will play a ball
and then they'll play balls with the
fairies and then like they they they all
do this thing and they're creating
different worlds and environments and
that's just like that's how our our our
business World Works we're just playing
around and like building cool [__] we
take it so much more seriously than kids
do but that's really really similar you
put a 100 kids and you put 100
businessmen in a like in a in an
environment they're going to basically
do the same [__] they're going to come
together and they're going to create
[__] and then they're going to tear [__]
apart and they're going to compete and
it's just like the same thing that's
happening experiments same
way if you if you see the experiments
work the way humans
work which is let's play Let's
experiment let's build this let's try
this out for a minute let's move on to
the next thing let's evolve that's how
we work we don't work like this is
really serious and we need to get this
done and this is who I am and I we have
those thought process but it's not where
we're alive it's not like what what our
nature what our natural instinct is well
this this really brings it back to for
me the something we alluded to earlier
about the window of Tolerance and you
know like highrisk situations and so the
economy for example it's like yeah we're
all playing we're all playing until all
a sudden we're like out of oil and all
the carbons in the sky and we're like oh
damn and I could be like oh yeah you
know I'm G to be I'm just going to ask
questions in a conversation until until
suddenly I'm in a really high press
sales meeting or I'm walking up to a
girl I'm really attracted to and
like and so there's something here about
how
how we can run an experiment that stays
in a window of Tolerance but also pushes
our edges just enough so that it expands
it yeah uh I'm curious how how would you
approach like say a really highrisk
situation like like flying a wing suit
through a canyon or you know
running the US government right uh like
the monetary policy or how how would
experiments work in in those situations
so that we stay within a window of
Tolerance and don't crash the plane yeah
exactly as you're saying I would create
the experiments that are within the
window of tolerance as much as possible
and do what I know in the other moment
so for instance if I was running the US
government and I'm dealing with say like
a war in
Ukraine I would want to run a series of
lesser experiments to see what I can
find out without you know committing 10
billion to this weapon or whatever it is
so I would look for just like we talked
about with the MIT media lab I would
look for the thing I know the least
about and what's the simplest experiment
where I could learn the most and not run
experiments where there's a lot of fear
because they usually don't go well you
know that the that you stop running the
experimental mindset so the same
experiment then becomes not the
experimental yeah yeah that's exactly
right you you lose the mindset so on the
things that are really important you do
what you know that you know will work or
you find experts you know what will work
and you do it but in the things that you
don't know or the places where you're
curious you figure out that little
experiment you can run on the side to
learn about
things and I also say that that that
there's often times that sense of
urgency is far greater than it actually
is you know I I'll run experiments in
our business that cost us a [__] ton of
money and I'd far rather do that than
try to get it right I'd rather feel in
connection with like the pull and the
migratory path and each other and where
our wonder is than I would in trying to
get something perfect and it works
really really well in our business and
it and it has worked really really well
in businesses like early Google
or um uh early Microsoft they ran a lot
of experiment Microsoft is a great
example they ran a lot of experiments
have failed oh my God they ran so many
so many businesses that they started and
failed at it was just
incredible and still one of the biggest
companies with hundreds of millions of
dollar billions of dollars lost in crazy
ass experiments yeah seems like there's
something sort of chicken and eggy about
the uh like de developing the I'm going
to call it faith that you can run an
experiment in something that feels more
high stakes feels
feels
scarier asking for more money from
clients drawing boundaries with your
partner experiments that lead to real
changes that have real consequences in
your life but developing the the trust
in the process of experimentation such
that you're I I've seen I've seen myself
now Run 100 experiments and I have a
deeper sense of knowing if I'm like we
were talking about earlier following my
migratory path or where I'm jumping out
of the discomfort and how big my window
of Tolerance can become and where my
edges where my playfulness becomes self-
protection and the experiment falls
apart and then with that kind of meta
awareness but also an emotional kind of
grounding in it then you can expand and
Trust experimentation trust that process
in more and more high
stakes areas of your life I think with
that
so I said earlier that
the that it's our nature like the
experimental way of doing things is just
how we do things
naturally the other way to say that is
like that's all we're ever [__] doing
is running experiments we're either
doing it consciously or we're doing it
unconsciously we either are are running
the experiment of showing up at the post
office every day and working for eight
hours and collecting overtime and we're
running an experiment will will I keep
my job will will I survive the will I
have to eat a lot of medication to like
maintain this
lifestyle we're running all those
experiments we just might not be
consciously running them but we are
everything we're doing we are by our
nature ex taking an experiment living in
a certain way and then deciding at some
point and the only thing that we're
doing a little bit differently here is
we're keeping it playful we're making it
conscious we're taking taking moments to
reflect and that's a really critical
component is taking those moments to
reflect how is that going what am I
learning what's the next thing that I
want if I reflect what's the thing
that's pulling me and how do I go there
those are those are the things that are
the only things that are different is
we're just making an unconscious process
very conscious yeah yeah it reminds me
of what we talked about in our
principles episode where we're all
operating by certain principles but many
of them are implicit
and unexamined and so when you just
bring them into bring them into
awareness for examination to wrestle
with them to play with them then they
get to evolve and then then you start to
develop an explicit trust in the
principles that you have been really
workshopping and the experiments and in
the in the process that you've been
using right to do what we do naturally
which is explore and experiment that's
right you trust and you're refining the
tool so it's not just oh I trust it it's
I have sharpened the heal out of this
sword so I know it'll cut through the
bamboo yeah so what what's an experiment
that you're running right now uh the
experiment so at the beginning of this
podcast you you said to me Joe I want
you to run an experiment for this
podcast I do not know if people will be
able to hear it because of the way that
this is edited but I've been noticing
that I say the word like a lot and so
every time I heard myself say the word
like I stopped speaking for two seconds
is
took a breath and then started again and
so so that was interesting it it
definitely made the amount of times that
I use the word like
less overall but what I also noticed is
that
it created a certain uh presence that
not that it's a good presence or bad
presence not presence in that way but
like a certain
leave that one
in but a uh a
presence that has a very specific flavor
to it that I don't normally have in a
podcast it it requires me to stop and
think or not think it requires me to
stop and be with a situation for a
moment before just speaking the stuff
that comes
out that's awesome yeah so that how
about you what was the experiment that
you did yeah mine has been to structure
Dom
you so I like all right Joe here's
here's what we're gonna talk about in
the way we're talking about it we're
gonna do this intro and try it this way
even if we have to record it like eight
times and feel like idiots doing it yeah
and brush your teeth so you're not
picking your
teeth it's it felt really good I I
really have really really enjoyed you
just like taking control and saying this
is how I want things it it it it relaxes
my nervous system for sure so I don't
know if you enjoyed it but if you did
please continue it's great yeah I did
and also I wasn't expecting this because
it was sort of like a prep Dom sort of
uh experiment but what it also did was
coming into the episode I felt
more uh more in myself in directing the
conversation and yeah kind of following
it which made feel a little bit less
like I needed to interject to uh to
drive the conversation so there's I was
actually more able to flow with the
conversation with less touch which felt
really nice and I'm definitely going to
continue playing with I noticed that I
noticed that that that was true that's
cool yeah yeah yeah and we didn't follow
the the script or not the script we
didn't we didn't follow the outline and
I'm glad we didn't we it's never good
when we just straight up follow an
outline no but it was a it was a really
good iteration and I we said all the
things that I feel like we wanted to say
yeah so so I want to leave listeners
with with some experiments that they can
run in their lives so where can they go
to to check out any experiments examples
that we've that we've created uh we're
going to be coming up with a kind of an
experiments minseries of very short
couple minute long episodes that will'll
be sharing experiments and where can
they find them right so view. life
experiments is where you can find a lot
of the tools that we use for experiments
you timers or reminders
and um different different little
experiments and then and I believe
that's where we're going to just start
making a list of experiments um that
people can do the other uh thing that I
would love is to hear about any
experiments that you run on social media
that would be really cool so anybody
who's following uh me at
fuore Joe Hudson at Twitter will be able
to see each other's experiments which I
think is really useful um we can you can
also do it with us on Instagram and then
we can share some of those experiments
if I feel like some of the experiments
aren't sharable I'm not going to share
them but some of them that will be
shared and and I would love people to be
able to work with each other to figure
out some of the experiments that they're
running all right thank you Joe yeah
thanks Brett and thanks everybody for
listening it's been uh it's been a good
episode being structure DED by uh by
Brett has worked well for me all right
now I'm gonna structure D the audience
thank you everybody for listening to the
art of accomplishment uh to hear more
about us join our newsletter do it or
check out our courses at artof
accomplishment. comom right now right
now
now uh and U more uh share it with a
friend yeah do it uh don't forget to
follow us right now don't forget to
follow us and if you have a moment uh I
would love for you to rate US in your
podcast app give us five stars or four
stars or whatever number of stars five
stars we recommend
five uh it will be five stars five stars
do it uh the art of accomplishment was
produced and hosted by me Brett kler and
Joe Hudson right here M Kelly is our
production coordinator and this episode
was edited by on
replay don't f think say give us five
stars or four stars or whatever say give
us five stars on your
rating yes mistress